A GRADE 5 Spine Road Primary School pupil has been suspended after allegedly pushing a Grade 1 pupil s head into a dirty toilet before flushing it.Police are investigating a case of common assault lodged against the 13-year-old boy.The eight-year-old victim s father, Anele Dladloti, yesterday said he received a call from the school about the incident last Thursday. When he arrived at the school his son was drenched in toilet water. He put my son s head into a dirty toilet and he flushed the toilet. After that, he didn t care, he just left him there. My boy was traumatised, Dladloti said. Someone else had to assist his son out of the toilet and get him to help. It is attempted murder, anything could have happened. My wife was crying. She said what if my son was killed, Dladloti said. The boy did not want to return to school after the incident, Dladloti added. Yesterday, the school called in both of the boys parents and the alleged bully was suspended. Dladloti said he was satisfied with the way the school had handled the situation, but the parents of the Grade 5 boy had not apologised. I feel bad that the boy won t be able to write exams, he said. Dladloti said he had been told by the school the boy had previously been in trouble for bullying. Provincial Education Department spokesperson Paddy Attwell said the department viewed any incident of bullying in a serious light. The school has suspended the alleged perpetrator and will hold a disciplinary hearing. Our circuit team will monitor the case closely and will provide professional support, as required, Attwell said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a common assault case is under investigation and could not comment further. Meanwhile, a Dunoon teacher was arrested and released on bail for allegedly assaulting Grade 7 pupil Onke Jajini, 15, at Sophakama Primary School. The Western Cape Education Department is investigating the matter.His mother Someleze Jajini said the boy came home bleeding on October 21 after he was allegedly slapped in the face twice for refusing to sit down.This comes after the teacher had ordered her class to sit so she could identify those who were making noise in the assembly. I took him to a nearby clinic. He was transferred to Parklands clinic. The doctor there gave me a J88 form and advised me to lay a charge of assault, Jajini said.Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said the incident happened on the school grounds at about 11am. The educator was summoned to appear in court and the case was postponed until December 6, Van Wyk said.Atwell said the department viewed the allegations of corporal punishment in a very serious light. Corporal punishment is illegal in terms of the South African Schools Act. Our circuit manager has asked the school to submit a full report. Our district office is investigating, Atwell said.