THE provincial Education Department says it completed its investigation into allegations of discriminatory practices at Sans Souci Girls High School and sent a draft report to principal Charmaine Murray and others implicated for their response.The department said the investigative team would assess their responses before submitting a final report to acting head of department Brian Schreuder, with recommendations. The investigation was established in September after pupils protested against what they describe as a discriminatory code of conduct, which the girls say polices their natural hair and demerits them for speaking Xhosa.Greshen Chetty of Access to Justice, who represents pupils in mediation with the department and other stakeholders, said parents and pupils were unaware of when the investigation report would be released and were in the dark about when the matter would be resolved. He said the department stopped providing them with any information. They (the department) promised the parents they would be transparent, but there has been no communication. Why send it to the principal. They are being allowed the opportunity to amend the report before it is released. The report should have been released to everyone as a final report. He said the department was timing the release of the report until after exams, so that it does not cause disruptions. Meanwhile, Westerford High School introduced gender-neutral uniform policies when it comes to hair and jewellery. Principal Rob le Roux said hair and earring rules would be the same for boys and girls. Boys would be able to grow their hair, wear earrings and have the same rules as girls.Le Roux said the consultation process began last year, when the school was reviewing its uniform in an online survey and extensive discussions about the proposals were discussed. Le Roux said while the situation at Sans Souci formed part of discussions around changing their hair and jewellery rules, this did not prompt the discussion nor was it a deciding factor. He said the changes would be implemented next year. Department s spokesperson Millicent Merton said they encouraged school communities to exercise their democratic right to decide on codes of conduct, including dress codes, subject to the constitution and applicable laws. Westerford has exercised this right in a very open and transparent way. We encourage school communities to adopt a similar approach, and to ensure that the outcome is as inclusive as possible. Meanwhile, the provincial Education Department and the Human Rights Commission (HRC) launched a probe into allegations of racial and verbal abuse, as well as discrimination at Waterloo House, a Wynberg Girls High School boarding house.Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer said: The pupils will not be victimised in any way for voicing their concerns. I am informed that the circuit manager provided the hostel learners with her mobile number and said they should contact her at any stage. [email&#160;protected]