STAFF WRITERInspired by the national spirit of unity that defines this public holiday, the RCS Gugulethu Reconciliaton Day Race on December 16 is a one-of-a-kind event for the province and an ideal platform to celebrate the common bond of humanity between all South Africans. The event, which starts and ends at the NY49 Stadium in Gugulethu, comprises a 10km and 4.2km race or fun run or walk. The unifying power of music was added to the mix in 2013 with the advent of a music festival featuring talented local artists. Spot prizes, food stalls and loads of fun activities for the young ones make this the perfect family day out. The 10km run takes participants past the Gugulethu Mall and Gugulethu Junction and on to Manenberg, before heading back to the Gugulethu Stadium. En route, runners will pass some of the key attractions that have shaped the township, including the house of one of South Africa s greatest athletes, Mzoli Ngcawuzele, now famously the owner of Mzol&iacute; s Place - the township s hippest hangout and the Gugulethu Seven memorial. RCS has put significant support behind the Gugulethu Reconciliation Race over the past seven years and are proud to get behind a race that aims to bring people together in the spirit of ubuntu , while encouraging them to reach their health and fitness goals, said Regan Adams, CEO of RCS. The event aligns with the RCS company ethos Let s Make it Possible and enables us to invest in this community, he added. As a provider of credit and insurance solutions and owned by one of the largest banks in Europe, BNP Paribas, RCS prides itself on offering convenience and peace of mind to clients to enjoy all the adventures that life offers, while pursuing their individual goals. It s this pursuit that led them to the world of running and to sponsoring events such as the RCS Gugs Race and RCS SOX Trail run which takes place over 3 days in the Garden Route region.Runners can enter via www.entrytime.com or at the venue on race day from 5.30am onwards.