DESPITE growing recognition that the pandemic of violence against women is a gross human rights violation, concrete efforts on preventing and ending violence continue to be a low priority on the international development agenda with inadequate funding, the UN says. The world starts the international awareness-raising campaign 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children today.The Psychiatry Management Group (PsychMG) says in South Africa one out of every six women is regularly assaulted by their partner and in at least 46 percent of cases, the men involved also abuse the children living with the woman. UN Women executive director Phumzile Mlambo- Ngcuka said: Women and girls who experience violence have their rights trampled on, they live in fear and pain, and in the worst cases they pay with their lives. Yet, still in many countries, the laws and services are inadequate, or unavailable, and the criminal justice system is remote, expensive and biased in favour of the male perpetrators. PsychMG member Lerato Dikobe-Kalane said social services and the general community needs to actively address the situation and protect those vulnerable to such abuse and violence. She says the statistics paint a dire picture, with a recently released Optimus Study on child sexual abuse and maltreatment finding that one in every three young South Africans experienced some sort of sexual abuse by the age of 17. Dikobe-Kalane says many cases go unreported, hindering a comprehensive understanding of the full extent of abusive and violent episodes. Women are still unaware of their rights, whilst others are afraid of further violence from the perpetrator if they attempt legal action. This is even more compounded by the introduction of the new Domestic Violence Act, which a lot of women do not fully understand, and the widespread non-compliance to the act at police station level, where domestic violence cases are not being recorded as they should be. She says the prevalence of violence has a negative effect on women s physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health, and may increase their vulnerability to HIV. Domestic violence can lead to depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, sleep difficulties, eating disorders, emotional distress, substance abuse and suicide attempts. Global events marking the 16 Days of Activism will include lighting major landmarks in orange the colour chosen to symbolise a bright and optimistic future free from violence from the New York City mayor s Gracie Mansion to the European Commission HQ in Belgium.Independent Media launches its next social change campaign today, called Don't Look Away.