INDEPENDENT Media communications officer Moshe Apleni interviewed Gladwell Ndzube, who is the driving force behind the RCS Gugulethu Reconciliation Race 2016, or what has fondly become known as the Gugs Race , taking place on Friday, December 16. Q: This is the 16th annual (RCS) Gugs Race. Are you happy with how it has grown over the years? Yes, definitely. The race has gone from strength to strength over the years. We have now started seeing an increase in the number of local participants and this is good news.Q: Which changes have you made for this year s race? While the structure of the race is pretty much the same as last year, with the help of RCS we have upped the ante on our marketing to reach out to those people, communities and groups whom we haven t been able to reach before. We believe this will increase our number of entries this year and we re looking forward to a bigger and better race than during previous years. With the Cape Times on board this year our publicity reach has been greatly bolstered too. We also cherish the support we get from RCS partners Clicks, Sunglass Hut and Cape Union Mart. They are all on board again this year, and we really cherish their long-standing support. Q: If you had to list three reasons why runners should enter this year s race, what would those be? Definitely the experience of running through the streets of Gugs and passing some of the iconic landmarks that have helped to shape the history of Gugs like (that of) the Gugulethu 7. I can t think of any better way to celebrate Reconciliation Day than to begin it with a run in the morning, followed by a relaxing afternoon at the Gugulethu Sports Stadium to enjoy family time together watching local acts who will be performing. There will be lots to keep the youngsters entertained too a jumping castle and other fun games. Then there s also the chance to taste delicious township food at the food stalls while you spend some time getting to know the friendly people of Gugs. Q: What are Gugs s special qualities you would like to share or that you d like people to know of? Gugs is one the oldest townships in the Western Cape. It has produced some of the finest individuals, ranging from politicians to successful business people and high-profile celebs, who are making us proud in Mzantsi. Through athletics we as the people of Gugs pledge to bring about change through healthy living.The Gugs Reconciliation race is all about that too.