WHILE building on Independent Media s existing digital strategy and quality journalism, newly appointed IOL editor Riana Howa says her position will require her to expand the group s digital audience. Howa s position is effective immediately, further strengthening Independent Media s commitment to transformation and gender equity in the media.Her appointment follows the departure of her predecessor, Adrian Ephraim, who has been appointed as Independent Media s group digital content editor and editor of African Independent.Howa has been in media since 2004, as a sub-editor and layout artist at Independent, working at three of its Western Cape-based titles. She joined IOL in 2009 and has been the head of news and a content editor. Howa has been involved in developing the digital and social media strategy for IOL, which has one million daily readers clicking on an average of 6.5 million pages per week. She is also part of the team managing IOL s social media brands, including engaging with IOL s 207 000 Twitter followers and on Facebook, which has a reach of 1.3 million. Howa says changes will be made to the IOL site, enhancing the group s digital storytelling abilities. I now look forward to leading IOL s dedicated and energetic team in building on the success of Independent Media s digital vision, expanding our readership and growing audience and social media engagement, said Howa. I would like to thank Dr Surv&eacute; and Adrian Ephraim for showing faith in me and for giving me the opportunity to take my passion for digital news and the IOL brand to the next level. It has been an honour to be part of Independent Media s proud history of quality journalism at our print titles as well as its innovative and ground-breaking developments in the digital space. Ephraim said Howa s knowledge and understanding of IOL s systems and its audience would help take IOL to new heights. Riana is one of our more experienced members of staff at IOL and Independent Media. Her strong print background also means she understands the important role Independent s newspaper titles play in getting us to a digital future. &quot;I am confident Riana will excel as editor and be pivotal to IOL s growth, Ephraim said. Independent Media executive chairman Dr Iqbal Surv&eacute; said Howa had demonstrated that she was ready to step into this position, as she had been a senior member of the IOL team for the past seven years. This appointment also speaks to our transformation agenda, especially with regard to gender equity. Make no mistake, Riana is qualified for this position, but it s a boon when our appointments align neatly with our transformation agenda. Riana joins the growing number of female editors at Independent, who include Chantel Erfort, Chiara Carter, Slindile Khanyile, Yogas Nair, Val Boj&eacute;, Kashiefa Ajam and Adriana Senekal, Surv&eacute; said.