THE first Miss Africa Continent, Rebecca Asamoah, is in Cape Town this week as part of her year-long responsibility as an African ambassador. The tall 24-year-old Ghanaian took some time from her busy schedule to speak to the Cape Times, and even posed for pictures with tourists. Crowned in April at a lavish pageant at Johannesburg s Gold Reef City casino, Asamoah beat 11&nbsp;finalists drawn from an original list of 40&nbsp;contestants from across Africa. The pageant was founded in 2014 by film director and producer Lionel Neo Mashishi, and is envisioned as an educational platform and an empowering tool for young African women. Asamoah, an oral hygienist by profession, has a range of duties which include advocating for African culture and values, and representing the continent through the plights it faces. She is passionate about her social responsibility, and wants to inspire the youth to take a bold step towards achieving their dreams. I have been visiting many countries, and it s been a very busy five or so months. In Cape Town, I m visiting high schools and speaking to the young men and especially the young ladies. I want them to stay true to themselves and to believe there is a brighter future for them, said Asamoah. She said she wanted to impart knowledge by using her background and journey as a point of reference as to what they can achieve. After my reign, I am not stopping my work, and will continue back home and include the elderly that are often ostracised. I also want to continue being an example of what my culture is, what being an African woman is and to help emphasise African beauty. She believes what makes Miss Africa Continent so important is because African cultures and beauty have been viewed through a Western lens. Young waitress Tandokazi Nontanda, 20, from Samora Machel township in Phillippi, came to Asamoah after our interview and was ecstatic to meet her. I first saw her on a television interview and saw how much she has in common with me in her religious beliefs and character. Importantly she speaks about culture and how we must be true to ourselves and not forget our ancestors and history, said Nontanda. She said she has often found the traditions to be a bore, but as she has grown older she is inspired to lean more about her culture.