THE #FeesMustFall (FMF) student leaders at Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) distanced themselves from the latest arson attempt.The movement blamed disgruntled students who were not happy with the agreement reached. The university management, FMF activists, Student Representative Council (SRC), the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), Cape Peninsula University Employees Union (CPUEU) and #OutsourcingMustFall representatives reached an agreement over a week ago. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said a small fire was started at the Cape Town campus s multi-purpose hall at the weekend. The damage was limited and after a security assessment exams continued on schedule. We want to stress that the majority of student leaders and students want these exams to take place and we have every intention of continuing with assessments across all CPUT campuses. CPUT FMF activist Lukhanyo Vanqa said the greater movement was aware of some &quot;elements&quot; at the Cape Town campus and rumoured unhappiness. They are unhappy with the progressive resolutions reached at CPUT. Student leaders spent a week engaging the few students regarding their complaints to champion them, but to no avail. He said pointless radicalism and lack of ideological grounding were the reasoning behind the latest burning. There is an element of political jealousy by those who were rejected during the recent SRC elections. We reject their acts of opportunism. Police spokesperson Sally de Beer said the incident will be investigated.Meanwhile, campus security guards were frisking every Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) student boarding designated buses going to secured examinations centres established at the Tshwane Events Centre, Pretoria. A TUT bus was torched near the Soshanguve south campus as tension continued to simmer on Sunday. A bus was also torched yesterday.The university last week announced despite continued attempts to disrupt the 2016 final exams, tests will not be suspended but written at a secured location.