ACCORDING to their statistics, the Western Cape has the most police attacks. Of the total of 714 attacked, 276 were in the Western Cape. About 38 police officers have been killed this year.The latest is police officer Amanda Ladlokova, killed on duty. The constable stationed at Philippi East police station and her 39-year-old colleague were attacked by three suspects while responding to a robbery in Acacia Park on Tuesday. One of the three suspects, a 19-year-old, has been arrested in connection with her murder. The suspect is expected to appear in the Athlone Magistrate s Court tomorrow on charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances.Hawks spokesperson Lloyd Ramovha said Ladlokova and her colleague finished serving a protection order at one address when they were approached with a similar complaint within the vicinity. On their way to assist they were allegedly shot at by about three armed man, who subsequently robbed them of their firearms before they fled the scene. He said an investigation begun in earnest that culminated in the arrest of one suspect.The mother-of-three was the sole breadwinner for the Ladlokova s. She leaves behind her husband, two daughters aged 14 and nine months, and a four-year-old boy.Her nephew, Yanela Nyatheli, said: We will never let another family (member) become a police (officer) after this incident. This came as a shock to us. We are still trying to come to terms with the loss. He said Ladlokova s 14-year-old daughter has been crying since her mom s death. The young ones have no idea of what has happened. The whole family was dependent on her to build our home in the Eastern Cape. She was the provider in the family. Even if we had nothing we would come to her and get what we needed. He said it was heartbreaking that his aunt suffered such a brutal death . She was always calm, cool, collected full of smile. No one could have predicted she would die this way. He said Ladlokova served in the force for 10 years.Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: Attacks on police members are an indication of the ruthlessness of criminals, who have no respect for law and order and brazenly remove the custodians of safety and security from communities for their own personal gain. The men and women in blue will pursue the remaining perpetrators relentlessly and bring them to book to face the full might of the law. 