PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma s firewall in the National Assembly held firm as he survived a no confidence motion from opposition parties. This despite wrangling over whether the vote should be taken by secret ballot.The president has faced 10 no confidence motions since 2010 and this is the second one since June.The latest no confidence motion followed last week s court-ordered release of the report into state capture by the public protector and the sudden reversal of plans to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.After more than two hours of deliberation and debate, the ANC used its numerical advantage to ensure that, for now, Zuma would not be removed from office.Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli initially called for a voice vote and when opposition parties objected, he called for a division. After much argument the doors of the chamber was shut, with MPs using their electronic consoles to cast their votes.After the votes were counted, 214 MPs voted against the motion with 126 for, one abstaining and 58 not casting their votes almost all of whom who were absent from the sitting.Rallying his troops ahead of the vote, Zuma made a rare appearance at the ANC s caucus meeting, where he was greeted with cheers and song. After the vote, the house was adjourned, with ANC supporters bused in to fill the public gallery celebrating Zuma s latest triumph against opposition parties.Among those joining supporters in song was International Affairs and Co-Operation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who said the vote proved democracy is alive in South Africa . Representatives of the people have spoken. It s never too late to reaffirm what democracy stands for in South Africa because our people died for this, they sacrificed life and limb. President Zuma was elected by the people of South Africa who voted ANC through this Parliament. DA MP Gavin Davis said the ANC was afraid to have a secret ballot because it was conflicted within its ranks. I think the ANC today had a pyrrhic victory. They think they won this debate today, but they actually lost because they showed South Africa that they will fall in line behind Jacob Zuma, behind a corrupt and broken president. They showed their true colours today. Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu said opposition parties misunderstood the unity of the ANC. When the African National Congress makes decisions, collectively, we stand with each other and this is the proof. We ve stood with each other for 104 years and we ll stand with each other even in the future. She said opposition parties, despite unhappiness among those in the ANC ranks, could not divide the party.According to Zulu, the DA lobbied ANC MPs, sending them letters, in the hope of influencing their vote. We shall not be divided by the opposition. 