WYNBERG Girls' High boarders are demanding the removal of a hostel employee, the release of a transformation report and an assurance they will not be victimised for speaking out. The girls allege they have been violated, broken down repeatedly and now feel helpless. They vowed to protest outside the school hostel on Friday to highlight their concerns.Yesterday, officials from the provincial Education Department were in a meeting with the pupils and the school. Wynberg Girls' High principal Shirley Harding says there is a transformation process under way and some changes have been made. The black pupils allege the hostel employee used the K-word and has created division among black, coloured and white pupils. Yesterday, a pupil said they are allegedly being subjected to racism and subtle racism. The pupil, speaking on behalf of the group, said they had gone repeatedly to Harding, but nothing had been done. We have been campaigning since January, there has been meetings and surveys, but we hear nothing of it. &quot;The principal places emphasis on unnecessary stuff, but the root is not being addressed. A promised report on transformation had not materialised. There is only one black teacher on staff. The statement alleges the employee lied to staff members, saying the pupils from Masiphumelele have sexually transmitted infections and have made the hostel unhygienic. She is also accused of telling white pupils that black pupils are dangerous. We feel excluded by the school (management) and while there is some racial tension between the girls, it is not a lot, the pupil said. The school has an all-white governing body and the pupils say this is not right and the wool is often drawn over their parents' eyes. They also alleged the employee told white pupils they are in danger from black pupils. We have never wanted to harm white learners and do not have any plans to harm them, the statement reads. Harding said an investigation is always a healthy and transparent way to address concerns and pupils are never victimised for voicing concerns. Harding said after consultations, a report was issued to parents on November 6. As a result of this report, some changes have been made and others will follow after discussions with all groups when the learners are available at present they are writing their final exams. &quot;Discussions in the hostel revealed issues around interpersonal relationships and these have been discussed with the chairman of the governing body and a process is under way, respecting the rights of all individuals involved and following due processes as required. Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer s spokesperson, Jessica Shelver, said a district official is meeting the school. There are a number of concerning allegations made and our officials are investigating as a priority. By late yesterday the official was still engaging the school community.