THE young Stellenbosch woman at the centre of a sexual harassment complaint against former ANC Western Cape chairperson Marius Fransman has hailed the party s decision to suspend him for five years, saying it is one small step on our road to victory .The ANC announced yesterday that its national disciplinary committee (NDC) had found Fransman guilty on two counts of misconduct one for abusing his office for the purpose of attempting to obtain a sexual favour from Louisa Wynand, and another for making public statements which brought the ANC into disrepute. The party said the NDC found both charges to be very serious and suspended his ANC membership for five years.Reacting to the ANC s decision yesterday, Wynand said: I am relieved at the outcome of the ANC s ruling that Marius Fransman be suspended from the party. The ANC has handled this process in a professional way and I am grateful for that. They really did a thorough investigation into all of the allegations and the truth led them to their finding. She said she was focusing on the criminal investigation that lay ahead. In January, Wynand, from Stellenbosch, had accompanied Fransman and three of his friends in a car to the ANC s birthday celebrations in Rustenburg. It was reported that Wynand was allegedly forced to sleep next to Fransman in Kimberley while they were staying at a hotel. Fransman allegedly touched her while two others were seated in the back of the vehicle. I am glad this part of the process has been finalised. I am especially relieved for my family, who have been my constant pillar and support structure throughout this time. This is one small step on our road to victory. No woman in this country should go through the abuse I suffered. I am still picking up the pieces, but I am stronger now more than ever, said Wynand. In a statement, the ANC NDC said Fransman had failed to attend the hearing and showed no remorse for his misconduct. Discipline is the glue that holds the ANC together. There is no room in the ANC for leaders and members, irrespective of position or seniority, who show scant regard for the values and objectives of the ANC and who consciously choose to define themselves outside the organisation in breach of their membership oath, read the statement. Yonela Diko, the Western Cape ANC spokesperson, said: We have full confidence in the work of the NDC, the due diligence done by its members and staff on all matters that come before it, and the competency with which it discharges its work. After almost a year of uncertainty, we re pleased that the matter has come to a conclusion. Diko said the ANC hoped Fransman could continue to make his contribution to society.He said the first lesson for ANC members was to reinforce their appreciation that the party operated structurally, and all those who respect the structures must allow the process to run its course.Fransman told the Cape Times the disciplinary proceedings against him were flawed. He said he would appeal his suspension. He said there were factions within the party that wanted him out before next year s conference because he did not endorse ANC secretary- general Gwede Mantashe. They used this issue to get rid of me. There are people who have been (criminally) charged in the provincial leadership and nothing was done to them. [email&#160;protected]