THE Masiphumelele community is frustrated that a date to release the results of the Greater Masiphumelele Development Framework has not been set more than two years after a public participation process. Numerous calls for the City to release the long overdue results have been unsuccessful, said community leader Tshepo Moletsane. Moletsane said the development framework, which was supposed to provide solutions to improve the well-being of residents (not just housing but schools and job opportunities as well) was expected to be completed in February this year. In early 2015, public participation meetings were held for surrounding community members to give their input and in April this year the City also completed a house-to-house survey to get a better understanding of who lives in Masiphumelele, how they move around and the potential trends of the community. We are not getting answers when the results of these surveys will be released. It is frustrating and the delay is holding back the progress of the area. Nobody is aware of what is contained in that report. We are aware of the delaying tactics and we are not going to stand back, but seek answers on the upcoming subcouncil meetings, said Moletsane. He said the report was delayed because once it is released the City will have to act on its findings and recommendations. Resident Thobile Bisani, 34, said until the framework report was released the community of Masiphumelele will always live in poor conditions. That report will tell what is needed to improve the lives of people here. It s so sad that we have to wait this long to know where we stand, said Bisani. Mayco member for human settlements Benedicta van Minnen said the draft was completed and is still being scrutinised internally. She said it was hoped that the framework would assist regarding the future development of Masiphumelele. As a responsible government, the City must ensure that all factors are considered, said Van Minnen. Any future hypotheses of Masiphumelele or any decisions, according to Van Minnen, would be made in consultation with the community involved and in accordance with the City s allocation policy and the national subsidy criteria for housing opportunities. A fire station is in the pipeline for Masiphumelele to the amount of R13 million, said Mayco safety and security member JP Smith.Smith said the project was in the design phase, with construction expected to begin in the first quarter of 2017 and to near completion towards the end of 2018. [email&#160;protected] @PhalisoSandiso