A BREEDE River Valley farmer has been fined R20 000 for constructing an illegal dam. The farmer had built the dam with no authorisation from the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS), which recently urged South Africans to respect water restrictions.DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said the department, through its Blue Scorpions, has achieved yet another significant milestone in dealing with the water transgressions in the Western Cape. In the Breede River Valley area, a farmer was recently convicted of contravening the new dam safety regulations by constructing a dam with no authorisation from the department. Following the litigation process, this farmer was fined R20 000, which was paid directly to the Breede-Gouritz Catchment Management Agency (Breede-Gouritz CMA) to enhance its compliance and monitoring function, Ratau said.He said the department has done a lot to curb water transgressions recently in terms of river and sea pollution, and the illegal damage and theft of pipelines. The Blue Scorpions is the core regulatory component within the DWS set-up to ensure the protection of all water resources in the country, as well as the enforcement of all water and sanitation laws and regulations. Blue Scorpions investigating officer Thanduxolo Thando Stimela said: The success in this case demonstrates the department s ability to conduct its own criminal investigation in water-related cases. Ratau added the milestone also sends out a clear message that farmers should adhere to the 20 percent curtailment of all water uses as per notice 1&nbsp;057, which was carried in government gazette No 40&nbsp;279 of 16 September, 2016 pertaining to the drought period. Given the water challenges gripping the country, the department cannot afford to turn a blind eye on water transgressions. The department appeals to all water users to act in a responsible manner and respect the use of water during this drought period, Ratau said. Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane has also designated environmental management inspectors to conduct criminal investigations.She had urged South Africans to respect water restrictions in September.Meanwhile, the Vaal Dam has reached nearly a third of its capacity as a result of recent downpours, flooding and water released from the Sterkfontein Dam.However, despite the ailing dam now sitting at about 33.3 percent, almost three percent higher than it was at this time last week, Gauteng residents have been reminded to continue using water sparingly.Just two weeks ago, the Vaal was only sitting just above 26&nbsp;percent. We are still dealing with a drought, we re still in it. People must continue saving water and using it sparingly. We must act as if there is no water and use it responsibly, said Ratau.According to him, water restrictions implemented by municipalities across South Africa will remain in place.