THE South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC) will host an exploratory workshop early next year to evaluate opportunities to conduct a clinical trial for medicinal cannabis in the country, with a possible focus on chronic and HIV- associated pain. Nandi Siegfried, a chief specialist scientist at the Alcohol Tobacco and Other Drug Research Unit at the SAMRC, said the research unit had produced a policy brief on medicinal marijuana, and will host an exploratory workshop to evaluate opportunities to conduct a clinical trial in South Africa and to bring together potential clinical investigators. Siegfried spoke at the World Psychiatric Conference at the Cape Town International Convention Centre this week. The focus condition has not yet been determined, but may include chronic pain and HIV- associated pain, she said. As the country grapples with the weight of public opinion versus global research on the benefits of medical marijuana use, local experts warn that arguments for and against should be based on fact rather than emotion and rhetoric. There is greater recognition that there is evidence for medicinal use for specific conditions (including chronic pain, multiple sclerosis and chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting) and many countries now regulate medicinal cannabis for specified conditions. However, the potential for harm from recreational use, especially in adolescents, remains a concern, and the balance between greater availability and harms needs to be considered by government and society, Siegfried said. Stellenbosch University senior psychiatrist and lecturer Dr Lize Weich said there was clearly a need for more research to understand the benefits and harms fully. The criminalisation of cannabis is very expensive and has not been effective. It has not prevented large-scale cannabis use around the globe, and the war on drugs has focused on prosecution of drug users, has led to human rights violations for these individuals, and has benefited criminal markets rather than preventing drug use and drug-related harms. On the other hand, cannabis has clearly documented risks, especially when used by those who are vulnerable, like our youth. Also, the effects/harms of legalising are unknown. It has only been three years since Uruguay became the first country to legalise cannabis, and it may not be the same in different countries. Policy changes are often made in response to public perceptions that are often not based on fact; in this case, the belief that cannabis is a harmless herb and has magical medicinal value. In reality, research is limited and often conflicting, she said. [email&#160;protected]