FAMILY and friends of Ntokozo Mkhize, 17, paid their last respects to the slain Rhodes High School pupil at a memorial service held at the Langa Methodist Church yesterday.Mkhize was found dead in Zone 12 at the weekend. Dreams of Hope spokesperson Ndzuzo Mngomeni said Mkhize had been accosted by four men on his way home from a traditional ceremony preceding circumcision.Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the incident took place at 3.45am in Washington Street. Police attended to the complaint of a 16-year-old male with multiple stab wounds to his body. The victim died on the way to hospital. A case of murder has been opened for investigation and suspects are yet to be arrested, she said.His mother, Zanele Mkhize, said she never expected her son would die the way he did. It was a very senseless and brutal death. I hope he is the last child to die such a painful death. It s becoming common for our children to die from merciless attacks, she said.Mkhize said she would never take the law into her own hands and avenge her son s death. Only God will judge and punish them. I am not going to hunt them down, she said.Mkhize said were it not for the caring and justice-seeking community, she would not even have laid a charge. I don t want to go through the trauma of attending court cases where the pain of losing my son would be relived, she said.Mkhize said her child did not like to fight as she had raised him to respect other people, including his peers. He was a very humble child who liked to play soccer. He used to avoid quarrels at all costs, she said. Mngomeni told mourners the community was getting used to parents burying their children. He said Mkhize was accosted by four men while walking with his friends. They were coming from a traditional ceremony where boys celebrate by singing for someone before going to initiation school. They stoned him and then stabbed him more than 20 times while lying down, he said.Mngomeni said that Mkhize s death was a huge blow to his organisation s aim of ensuring children s safety in the area. This happened just after we had a meeting with parents on how to ensure the safety of children. Banning of such ceremonies was also on the agenda, he said.Anyone with information that can assist with the investigation is requested to contact investigating officer Detective Michael Myeki on 071 089 1837 or contact the Langa police on 021 695 8024.[email&#160;protected]