Get ready for a funky ride South Africa for Faf du Plessis is nothing that you are accustomed to. Although he might not be an entirely spanking new Proteas Test captain having done the job so admirably on a part-time basis that the suits at Cricket South Africa decided to permanently hand the 32-year-old the armband, Du Plessis bears no resemblance to anyone that has come before him.First of all, how many South African cricket captains do you know of arrived at his first official press conference in tow with his sausage dog, aptly named Giorgio yes that s in reference to the fashion designer Giorgio Armani and dressed in skinny cut jeans with whisper white trainers?And even though he was obliged to wear the mandatory sponsor s golf shirt, it was just small enough to show off his bulging biceps and impressive tattoos. In some parts of South Africa Du Plessis would be regarded as windgat and believe you me if the Proteas results head in a southwards direction he will be made well aware that his idiosyncrasies are no longer cute but for the moment the Proteas Test skipper is breath of fresh air. He fully embodies the new generation South African. No safari suits and wild-game hunting for this man from Pretoria. Its snapback peak caps and surfing at Muizenberg and Melkbossrtrand. And it is not just his dress style that he s bringing to the Proteas, but more that effervescent spirit to embrace new challenges and empower individuals around him. Prime example is JP Duminy. For so long Duminy has been a wasted talent within the Proteas set up. A batsman that was on par with AB de Villiers at junior level, showed his class in his debut Test series so magnificently on the 2008 Australian tour but failed to live up to expectations due to untimely injuries, poor form and being shifted down the order on many occasions.Du Plessis has immediately put a stop to the latter and why Duminy walks to crease at No 4 ahead of him. I got a few chirps in Australia that I was hiding at No 5 behind JP but for me it s about getting the best out of JP, and I thought it s just the way he s played his cricket and the way he s looking, he looks like the JP Duminy we all know he can be. For me it s the extra responsibility on JP. I ve got the captaincy, so I don t need any extra responsibility. If I have to bat No 3 or No 4, I don t think it would make any major difference. I think it s nice that JP has that responsibility and feels like he has to go out and score big hundreds for the team. Whereas at No 7, sometimes you bat with the tail and you tonk a few and get a good ball, Quinny de Kock is perfect for that role because he takes the game away from the opposition. I like that extra responsibility on JP. Another admirable Du Plessis character trait is his integrity. That s why he s determined to forge ahead with his appeal against being fined 100 percent of his match fee and being handed three demerit points by the ICC after footage emerged from the second Test against Australia in Hobart of the South African skipper applying saliva to the ball with a mint in his mouth.Du Plessis admitted that withdrawing the appeal sounds like the logical thing to do but he was not going to rescind on his principles. There is much substance to the style Du Plessis exudes. He loves captaining and was incredibly proud when he led in whites for the first time against New Zealand in the winter. He admits it feels strange because it s almost for the first time people take me seriously now because T20 is like fun but he does value the sanctity of Test cricket. For me it s the most enjoyable time to be captain because you have to work on plans for a period of time. You have to strategise a guy out and continuously challenge guys for a long period of time. To finally have it now and set in stone is a huge honour. I ll be taking it very seriously. The stuff we ve been working on for the last six months to a year is that we don t let standards drop. I think if I keep pushing the guys to hit those standards I think we ll be a team will be consistent. I love captaining. Whether it is a tennis-ball game in the backyard. 