IF ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize has deputy president ambitions, he will have to steal support from AU chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and give it to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. Dlamini Zuma is believed to be enjoying majority support within the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal, where the provincial executive committee and ANC Youth League (ANCYL) have already declared full support for her against Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa's supporters have said they needed Mkhize to sway the support ahead of the ANC elective conference in December next year.Since he was elected treasurer-general in 2012, there had been reports that the former KZN premier stood a chance to be the next deputy president. By then, he was being favoured by supporters of President Jacob Zuma for the position.However, sources inside the tripartite alliance said those who want Dlamini Zuma to succeed her former husband had ditched Mkhize. Instead, he is now being lobbied for the party s second highest position by Ramaphosa s camp.Ramaphosa has received support from the SACP, the Young Communist League of South Africa and Cosatu. In KZN, he also enjoys support of ousted former premier Senzo Mchunu and former mayor of eThekwini James Nxumalo, who are believed to have sizeable support within the ANC in the province.Ramaphosa's supporters in KZN said Mkhize was being lobbied because he was still popular in his home province, and had the potential to sway support from Dlamini Zuma to Ramaphosa. He is a doctor of managing KZN, which is why he is managing both factions in KZN. But I don t think that many people know him very well outside the province, said an SACP leader and Ramaphosa supporter.Another Ramaphosa backer said Mkhize had pushed for certain people to be included in the provincial executive committee (PEC) during the party s provincial conference this year. He (Mkhize) is the one who put some people in the PEC when they were sidelined. So there is no way that they would turn against him, the source said. The source said Mkhize also enjoys some support in some other provinces, which would be required for Ramaphosa to trump Dlamini Zuma. A list believed to have been compiled by Ramaphosa lobbyists, which was circulating on social media last month, had placed Mkhize as the party s deputy president. But another source within the tripartite alliance said Mkhize was fighting for his political survival. He speaks to both parties. Right now he speaks to Dlamini Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa, said the source.According to the Sunday Times, Mkhize s supporters might consider campaigning for him to contest for the presidential seat, but senior SACP leaders in KZN said there was no way he could make it. One of Dlamini Zuma s main backers, ANCYL KZN secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo, said Mkhize had a right to contest for any position in the party. Nobody has a right to tell him under which side he should stand. When asked if he would like to see Mkhize deputising for Dlamini Zuma, Sabelo said: I am not going to comment on that. For now we have only nominated Dlamini Zuma.&quot;ANC provincial spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said the national executive committee had banned members from discussing leadership issues. An attempt to reach Mkhize by phone was unsuccessful.