A POLICE officer allegedly shot and killed his girlfriend and her mother on Monday before allegedly shooting himself.A witness who narrowly escaped with herlife, told the Cape Times that Constable Thembile Gwegwe, 35, killed himself after shooting Bongiwe Dayimani, 28, and her 50-year-old mother Sindiswa in Khayelitsha.Aviwe Ndlazi, a friend of Bongiwe and who lives with her family, said she feared for her life as she witnessed the incident on Monday night. We were all in the living room when he entered, not saying a word. He pulled out his gun and shot Bongi s mother and we ran, said Ndlazi. He dragged her out of the room and shot her, he would have shot me too if I didn t get out of the house and hide from him. She said Gwegwe also wanted to kill Bongiwe s six-year-old son, but he wasn t there. He was looking for the boy and would have killed him as well. He went back into the house and shot himself. I went back and he was still breathing, there was blood everywhere, said Ndlazi.She thencalled the police and the paramedics.Bongiwe s brother Siyabulela Nqezo said Gwegwe had a temper, and had previously threatened his sister. We have lodged cases, but he is arrested for one day then released the next. They (police) are just protecting one of their own and now this has happened. This has shattered our family, said Nqezo.Gwegwe s family live close to the Dayimanis but were reluctant to comment.Police spokesperson FC van Wyk confirmed a murder case and said an inquest has been opened for investigation.Meanwhile, three days after a Malmesbury police officer disappeared on Christmas Eve, the family received news of his deathon TuesdayTwo men arrested in connection with the disappearance of 54-year-old Dion Dumas led police to the body of the warrant officer in Atlantis.A distraught Andre Dumas confirmed that police had found the body of his brother. I have just (yesterday) spoken to the police and they have informed us my brother s body has been found, said Dumas. This is extremely difficult and we are still in complete shock at the news as we were praying for his safe return. Andre confirmed that his brother Dion was last seen alive delivering a Christmas gift to their family doctor around 4pm on Saturday. The doctor said they spoke for a short while and there was no signs anything was wrong, and he was in good spirits. He gave no indication as to where he was going and left our doctor to go to a store, said Dumas. He said his brother was a bachelor, lived alone, had no children and had been prescribed medication for high blood pressure, diabetes and anti-depressants.Dumas referred the Cape Times to police for further information as the details surrounding his brother s death had not been completely conveyed to the family.Van Wyk said Warrant Officer Dumas s body was found about 8am yesterday. Two suspects were found in possession of the victim s vehicle, a white BMW, and were questioned. They led police to a location in Atlantis where the body of the victim was discovered, said Van Wyk.He said the circumstances surrounding Dumas s death was still being investigated and the suspects would remain in custody. [email&#160;protected]