Staff WriterABUSE affects everyone, even celebrities have experienced the pain and anguish of the many forms of abuse.Independent Media has been running Don t Look Away a social change campaign as part of the 16 days of activism no violence against women and children.A number of celebrities have spoken out against abuse and painted their nails orange, the United Nations Women s campaign colour. It is in support of women and children and to eradicate abuse. They have pledged to stand up against abuse and to lend their voices to ending violence against women and children.Social Entrepreneur, Tsidi Ramofolo was abused at the age of 14. For many years she was afraid to speak up. There came a point in her life when she has to reach for more. She found reaching out to be very beneficial and rewarding. It takes great courage to acknowledge the pain, the hurt and the shame. I chose to let go, to honour and accept my experience, and to shine light on the shadows that brought me extra confidence and self-esteem .Courtney Cousins, a fashion designer, speaks with fluidity and sureness. Young woman need to be kinder, have more respect and to work because in awareness all things are possible. There are many forms of abuse and being subjected to any kind damages the individual both emotionally and mentally. You can change all this by reminding yourself that you are not alone, that you have the support and power to elevate your attitudes and belief. Love is the key and the answer and the gift to yourself, she said.Professor Shirley Zinn firmly believes Each one of us, men and women, can choose to stop the violence right from where we are. This is our collective responsibility. We have to build a society that embraces a better life for all that is premised on the values of respect, dignity and ethical behavior. The covert, subtle abuse has to be the worst kind where you get alienated, side-lined, ignored or given the silent treatment and might be coerced to take a position or make a decision that one might not have wanted to make. Shirley has not allowed abuse to happen to her. She had taken a stand to confront it as soon as she it emerge.Siya Kolisi s, verbal eloquence makes him a persuasive speaker, having witnessed his mother being abused as a child. I never wish to see anyone experience abuse, if you are a victim of abuse, it is not your fault. Find a safe space and get help. I am vocal about abuse especially those towards women and children. You are NOT alone. Even in the midst of being tormented by our demons, we have the opportunity to heal. UN Women says 35 percent of women experience physical and/or sexual intimate partner violence or non-partner sexual violence over their lifetime.In the majority of countries with available data, less than 40 percent of the women who experience violence seek help of any sort. Among women who do, most look to family and friends and very few look to formal institutions and mechanisms, such as police and health services. Less than 10 percent of those women seeking help for experience of violence sought help by appealing to the police.The Country s campaign includes getting men to challenge the perpetrators of violence to change their behaviour to involve men in helping to eradicate violence and to provide survivors with information on services and organisations that can help lessen the impact of violence on their lives.The campaign ends on December 10, International Human Rights Day.