The City of Cape Town s Environmental Health Department has buckled down to help control pests in the warmer weather which could potentially cause disease if not managed properly.Warmer weather conditions have led pests like flies, cockroaches, mice and rats to multiply as a result of favourable breeding conditions, the City said on Tuesday.While pests were an inconvenience that affected most households, they could also introduce potentially harmful diseases if not managed properly.Cockroaches that make their way from the stormwater and sewer systems are a familiar sight around the city.The mayoral committee member for health, councillor Siyabulela Mamkeli, said: While the cockroaches themselves do not pose any risk to humans, they are able to spread disease should they come into contact with food, as a result of bacteria picked up in the stormwater and sewer systems. According to the City, a single female fly can lay up to 600 eggs in organic or decaying matter like wet food waste, compost heaps and animal faeces, from which maggots hatch within 48 hours. The maggots then pupate and the adult flies emerge. Flies spread diseases such as Gastro or dysentery, which is an infection of the intestines resulting in severe diarrhoea. There is also a risk of diseases like leptospirosis which is transmitted by rodents. Household pests are a reality for all of us. While we might not be able to eliminate them completely, I do urge residents to be mindful of how they manage their waste, especially in the warmer months, said Mamkeli. Flies, cockroaches and rodents flourish in waste, so I appeal to the public to consider how and where they re disposing of household waste. Hand-washing also becomes even more important, said Mamkeli.A number of City departments are involved in pest management. Transport for Cape Town (TCT) fumigates the drainage infrastructure, the Human Settlements Directorate provides fumigation services to rental stock residences, and City Health is tasked with education and awareness, referring complaints and concerns to the relevant departments. It also does rodent-baiting in informal settlements and some public spaces, and manages the increase in diarrhoea cases over the warmer months. City Health is also one of several parties involved in curbing the sale and use of illegal pesticides. Trade in such pesticides tends to flourish over this period as residents try to mitigate against the impact of household pests, said Mamkeli.The City encourages the public to follow these tips to deter pests:&middot; Seal wet kitchen waste in plastic bags before disposing of it in your bin or black bags&middot; Store your bags and bins in a cool place&middot; Keep your bins closed at all times to prevent flies from entering&middot; Wash and disinfect your bin after every removal&middot; Keep your refuse bags out of reach of animals&middot; Collect and dispose of animal faeces on a daily basis&middot; Do not litter and dump refuse on open spaces. We also call on communities to take ownership of their surrounding areas to prevent the spread of vectors and disease. We do ongoing education and outreach work, but it means everyone needs to work together. Understand that your actions, or inaction as the case may be, will not only put your household at risk, but also your neighbours. Work together to find solutions that will improve everyone s quality of life, added Mamkeli.Residents can report any environmental health risks or concerns to the City s call centre on 0860 103 089 or visit their nearest clinic or Environmental Health office. Private homeowners can also seek advice from the Environmental Health Department.More information on the illegal pesticide trade is available at http://tinyurl.com/gtc5pfy ANA