CHRISTMAS came early for children at Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital with Father Christmas taking time out from his exhausting schedule to spread some festive cheer during a surprise visit to their annual Christmas Parade yesterday. Christmas can be a very tough and emotional time of year for children and their families to spend in the hospital, but with the help of the Friends of the Children s Hospital Association (FOCHA) and several donors, enough toys were collected to ensure all patients received gifts. The youngsters eyes lit up as Father Christmas appeared, complete with bright red suit and sparkly white beard, along with his helpers to hand them each a gift and pose for photographs. He was escorted by the City of Cape Town s Fire and Rescue Services. The best part about the holiday season is the spirit of giving. I have an exhaustive schedule, but this is the one visit that I make special effort for; therefore it is always scheduled ahead of Christmas Day. It is really enjoyable to see the children s eyes light up when I walk through the door and it is the best way to start my festive season, said Father Christmas. The fun-filled parade also included an animal petting zoo, a magic show, puppet show, face painting and musical and dance items. The Christmas Parade is the most-looked forward to event on the hospital s calendar and is enjoyed by patients and staff alike. Hospital spokeswoman Angelique Wagner said: The Christmas Parade is an annual event that we host to include hospitalised children in festivities that they would ordinarily miss out on. It can be a tough time of year for children and their families to spend in hospital, so the Christmas Parade is designed to make their stay in hospital slightly more bearable by creating a magical experience for the patients. We are extremely grateful to all the entertainers that were part of the event today and everyone who donated Christmas gifts. It is wonderful to know that so many people open their hearts to help improve the experience of children in hospital over the festive season. 