THE South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) says consumers should remain vigilant as commercial activities increase over the festive season and South Africans increasingly turn to online shopping. Sabric chief executive Kalyani Pillay said consumers should only shop online on the sites of reputable merchants that offer secure payment options. Because commercial activities generally increase during the festive season, there is more opportunity for criminals to compromise information, she said. The 2016 Nielsen Mobile Shopping, Banking and Payment Survey, which polled online consumers across 63 countries, found that mobile devices had also become an indispensable shopping companion, with South African respondents saying they used their mobile device to research (59%) or purchase (36%) a product or service online. One in three use an app to make a purchase (35%) and more than a third of South Africans used their devices to look for deals (39%), make better shopping decisions (44%) or make shopping trips quicker or more efficient (38%). However, 59% of South Africans remained concerned about payment security. Peter Bauer, the chief executive of security, archiving and continuity services business Mimecast, said in this past year, cyber criminals continued to become more sophisticated by constantly revising, updating and re-inventing tactics and technologies for attacks. Building a cyber-resilience strategy that layers state-of-the-art preventative systems, point-in-time recovery measures and a means to maintain continuity during an attack can make a significant difference in fending off the myriad sophisticated threats, Bauer said. Mimecast predicts a rise in cyber gangs next year. We ll likely see growing groups of attackers, as well as a network of shared information they ve stolen, he said. He also said we were likely to see an increase in cyber espionage to cause more political disruption. Nation states and their sponsored operatives will use cyber espionage more and more to cause political shifts, disruption and to gain economic advantage. This will involve, but will not be limited to, e-mail hacking and disclosure of other forms of intercepted private communications, disruption of and interference with critical national infrastructures, he said. Sabric has advised consumers to ensure that the device used for internet or mobile device banking has the latest version of anti-virus and anti-spyware software installed from reputable vendors. Robust solutions should identify malware and prompt you to delete it, Pillay said. He has also advised consumers to review their account statements on a regular basis, and query disputed transactions with the bank immediately. Only place orders with your card on a secure websites. Do not send e-mails that quote your card number and expiry date, said Pillay. [email&#160;protected]