AT-RISK youth were given a glimpse into the life of a gangster and how their choices can result in them following the same path.The 18 Gangster Museum exhibition is a first of its kind and was on display this weekend in Lookout Hill, Khayelitsha.Within a container, it displays two sides one dark, representing the path of crime and gangsterism, and one white, representing positive choices and redemption.It also has a replica cell, from which a former offender speaks to the audience of the experiences and wrong life choices that led them to this fate.Museum owner and facilitator Wandisile Nqeketho said they hoped to have similar exhibitions as permanent fixtures within all at-risk areas in the province. In black culture there is a tradition of my child is your child, and we want to bring back a part of that element to help curb this culture of gangsterism. On the Cape flats you find it became sort of generational, while in townships it was usually more small cliques with a short lifespan, it s increasingly becoming more organised. He said the exhibition represented the paths a person could take, but also how the same person could decide to change their direction.Nqeketho and partner Siyabulela Daweti both have brothers who fell into gangsterism and know how it affects families.Daweti said the exhibition was also a warning to parents and elders. We want the elder generation to realise that how they are speaking or reprimanding the youth plays a part. &quot;Calling them useless or stupid, or saying they will never amount to anything is part of the behaviour we need to change. Daweti said the offender speaking to the children was a 24-year-old serving time in Drakenstein Correctional Centre for murder, who spoke of his life choices and a background that anyone could relate to.Community member Mvuyo Milolo said the exhibition was &quot;on point&quot;. We see how crime and gangsterism affect our communities and how many youths we lose to the lifestyle. This is showing them what can be achieved and also how a bad choice means you give up on a good life. He said he found it inspiring and hoped the youth of Khayelitsha found the same inspiration.For future exhibitions, the 18 Gangster Museum can be reached on [email&#160;protected], or followed on Facebook. [email&#160;protected]