WHILE she became known as the scribe at of the Freedom Charter, Beata Lipman s legacy is likely to be that of a life-long activist, who protested injustice right until the end.Lipman died last week in Johannesburg at the age of 88. Yesterday. her daughter Jane Lipman described her mother as a committed activist . She was cremated at the weekend and a memorial is planned for January 21, next year.Lipman started her activism in 1951 while a journalist at the erstwhile New Age newspaper, which rose from the ashes of the banned left-wing Guardian, which had been the leading voice against apartheid. At the New Age, Lipman worked with Ruth First.In 1952, she was active in the formation of the Congress of Democrats, which consisted of white activists in support of the Defiance Campaign led by Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.The Defiance Campaign sought to challenge the pass laws, which severely restricted the movement of black South Africans, particularly in the cities. In total, over 9&nbsp;000 people were detained for defying South Africa s pass laws with the state targeting the leaders of the campaign for prosecution.This campaign was the catalyst for the Congress of the People, held on June 25 and 26, 1955, in Kliptown, Soweto.Lipman, along with her husband Alan, were members of the Communist Party, but ended their membership in 1956 in protest over the Soviet Union s invasion of Hungary.The Lipmans would go into exile to the UK where Beata would continue her journalism, becoming a documentary film-maker.She and Alan returned to South Africa in 1990 after the release of Mandela, and continued making documentaries about Struggle icons like Mandela, Sisulu and Sol Plaatje. She continued her activism through the very political films that she made, says her daughter, Jane.Evidence of her activism was her protest against the state of Israel, being one of several Jewish South Africans who signed a petition against that country over its treatment of Palestinians in the occupied territories and the blockade of Gaza.Jane says her mother questioned South Africa s status quo in her final years. In the last few years she would always ask her grandkids, why isn t there more transformation at the schools ? It was always on her mind that we didn t have enough transformation, it was in her blood. She said her mother was committed to creating change in South Africa, while some of the changes were good she also expressed her unhappiness with other aspects of the country s democracy.