THE case for girls growing up without fathers is that they usually have low self-esteem.They never had a father figure in their household, which leads to lack of confidence.In most cases, girls tend to find comfort in older men who are referred to as blessers. The effects it has on the young girls include a fear of rejection.Sometimes the fear leads to them using drugs to escape their problem so they can feel less rejected. There are other forms of escapism young girls and women think will help, for example, prostitution and crime.In many cases, girls suffer from anxiety and depression. Due to the case of fatherless girls, they grow up experiencing difficulties in finding the right man. The reason is that they feel uncomfortable with a man in their space.For many reasons, girls have a natural need to be breadwinners in their households to see to the needs of those in the house. The love for their mothers grows stronger, and that is why they have more respect for them. When it comes to father absence and links to teenage pregnancy, timing is critical.Father absence increases the daughter s probability of frivolity, unprotected sex and falling pregnant.Girls whose fathers abandon their families or remain absent during crucial years have the highest rates of both early sexual activity and adolescent pregnancy, followed by those whose fathers left at a later age, and then followed by girls whose fathers were present.One speculation as to why father absence is linked to teenage pregnancy involves girls' earlier menstruation and mirroring their mothers' behaviour.Reasons for fathers' absence l Military families: the father may be deployed, which causes tension between the parents.l Incarceration: sometimes the father is unable to bond with his child. This can be for any number of reasons, including a lack of maturity, drug addiction or illnes.l Employment away from the household: the father may be supporting the family by working far away from home. This may be due to necessity or simply pursuing the best opportunity.The &quot;daddy issues syndrome&quot; is a bit tricky, but is definitely a reality and it turns out one-third of children live in homes without their biological father present, and many other dads are essentially absent due to issues such as addiction and abuse.In plenty of cases other key adults in a child s life often go above and beyond to fill the gap, and many children who grow up without fathers turn out perfectly fine.Advice for fatherless girlsDon't fear men because not all men are the same. Be independent and be a brave and fearless girl.Most importantly, reach out if you need help because there is support out there.