A PHOTOGRAPHIC exhibition capturing moments in the life of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu will tour the US this month. The US-based Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation, in partnership with Trinity Church in Wall Street, New York, launched a &quot;Tutu: Then and Now&quot; photography exhibit featuring the works of South African photographers Sumaya Hisham and Eric Miller. The images span a period of more than 30 years, from his work during apartheid to his involvement in the Truth and Reconciliation Commission with Nelson Mandela, to his peace and justice work since his retirement in 2010. Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation executive director Brian Rusch said he was first inspired to bring this exhibition to North America when he saw Hisham s photographs.Her work has appeared in the Washington Post, LA Times, Times UK, Irish Times, Guardian, The Mirror UK, BBC and Newsweek. She has been documenting the work done by the Desmond and Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation for the past two years. In August 2014, Hisham hosted her first solo photographic exhibition, #Tutu at St George s Cathedral. Her work perfectly captures all of the qualities of the archbishop as I know him. As we began planning the exhibit, we realised the need for historical context. Sumaya had a colleague, Eric Miller, who had photographed the archbishop during much of the 1980s and 1990s, so we invited him to collaborate with us on this project, Rusch said. Miller started as a photojournalist in the 1980s, working during that period for the progressive photo-collective, Afrapix, as well as the Reuters and Associated Press news agencies. Trinity s Reverend Winnie Varghese said: Trinity has had a long relationship with the archbishop, beginning many years ago when he was a deacon in the church, continuing through his fight against apartheid, to today.We value the work of justice and reconciliation, and hold the archbishop s work in South Africa in high regard, and we are glad to partner with Sumaya, Eric and the Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation to share images of that work with the community. The exhibition opened at St Paul s Chapel in New York on December 1. It will run till December 18, beginning a North American tour that includes Washington DC, Toronto and Los Angeles, Chicago and San Francisco.