GROOTE Schuur Hospital staff and volunteers spread festive cheer with hampers for patients spending the holidays away from their families.For the third successive year, hampers consisting of various luxuries and toiletries were distributed to the 900 inpatients.Patients beamed as staff and volunteers moved from ward to ward yesterday, with a band playing traditional Christmas music.The hospital board s assistant chairperson, Zaamier Brey, said the idea was to spread some joy to their patients. This is a challenging time for patients who, besides their health, often have no family members visiting them. Seeing the spark in our patients when they receive their hampers is the only motivation we need to continue doing this, said Brey.He applauded the staff, volunteers and sponsors for their contributions, and said over 19 000 items had been delivered on Sunday for the hampers.The Mustadafin Foundation s director, Ghairunisa Johnstone-Cassiem, said they were committed to being involved with this initiative every year. Today (yesterday), with the music and the hampers, we are also spending time with patients as many have not had any visitors. It s a small gesture which can mean so much to patients whose families cannot visit, Johnstone-Cassiem said.Nurse Susan Masemola said some patients came from as far as Vredenberg and further north, because hospitals there lacked certain specialised units. It can be very expensive for their families to come down, and often they spend the festive periods here in Cape Town alone. Working during the festive season ourselves, we understand being away from your family is not easy and do our best to help keep everyone s spirits up, Masemola said.Crystal Klaassen from Mitchells Plain has been in the hospital for almost a week after suffering a mild stroke. My husband is at home with our four children. It s far to travel and too costly for us. I am waiting for confirmation if more tests will be done, as I do not know if I will be here on Christmas, said Klaassen.She said the hampers helped everyone to feel more festive and they appreciated everyone going the extra mile for them. [email&#160;protected]