HAVANA, CUBA: President Jacob Zuma has paid tribute to former Cuban leader Fidel Castro in Havana, hailing him as one of the greatest revolutionaries of our time and one of the greatest heroes of the 20th century .Speaking at a mass memorial rally in the Plaza de la Revolucion, Zuma said: We join the progressive forces of the world in mourning and celebrating the life of this renowned internationalist and anti-imperialist, who selflessly supported the struggles of the oppressed and exploited. Castro, 90, died at the weekend. Zuma said his death was a painful loss for the South African people&quot;. He (Castro) stood with us in solidarity, supporting our struggle, including the international campaign to isolate the apartheid regime. We knew that we could rely on Cuba, a trusted friend and ally of the oppressed, he said.Zuma said that, significantly, the deep and undying special relationship between Cuba and Africa was cemented by the blood of heroic Cuban soldiers who paid the supreme sacrifice for their belief in anti-imperialism, freedom and justice .According to Zuma, Cuba deployed about half a million soldiers and officers in Africa to support the struggles for national independence or against foreign aggression for more than 30 years.Zuma also highlighted Cuba s Angolan intervention as the greatest example of international solidarity that changed the course of history. Comrade Fidel deployed combat troops, military advisers and equipment to defend Angola from an invasion by the racist South African Defence Force which was backed by negative proxy local forces. The mission was also to liberate Namibia and boost the liberation efforts in South Africa between 1987 and 1988. It was this engagement that led to the epic battle of Cuito Cuanavale in 1988, in which the Cubans forced the South African racist apartheid regime into a humiliating and devastating retreat, he said. He said the historic defeat of the racist forces consolidated the victory of the MPLA in Angola and also laid the basis for Namibian independence in 1990, leading to South Africa s own liberation in 1994. We salute Comrade Fidel for this selfless sacrifice, he said.Zuma said Cuba was not looking for gold, diamonds or oil in Africa, but only wanted to see freedom and an end to the treatment of Africa as a playground of powerful nations while people suffered. We also recall the words of our (ANC) President Oliver Tambo at the meeting of the non-aligned countries here in Havana in 1979. He said Africans had come to know the Cuban people 'not merely by meeting them in their own country, but because they live with us in Africa, they fight with us, they die with us, they fail and they win, with us. They have become part of the struggling people of our continent.' Most significantly, we will remember Comrade Fidel as a great fighter for the ideal that the poor have a right to live in dignity, said Zuma.Castro will be buried at the weekend.