TWO police officers have been shot dead and another wounded in three separate incidents yesterday in the city. The recent incidents have brought the number of attacks on officers to eight in less than a month. Five of the officers have been killed and three others wounded. While a manhunt has been launched for the suspects behind the murder of 35-year-old constable Mziwonke Siwisa, the Hawks confirmed they have taken charge of the investigation of a 38-year-old off-duty police constable killed in Nyanga. Siwisa, who was stationed in at the Sea Border unit at Table Bay Harbour, was shot and killed in Ngculu Street, Kraaifontein, while on his way to report for duty yesterday. He was dressed in civilian clothes and his service pistol was stolen. Police say he was with his girlfriend when three men approached and shot him. No one has been arrested. Preliminary investigations suggested the killing was taxi violence-related, according to the Hawks. Another police officer was shot and wounded by three men while conducting patrols in Gugulethu yesterday. The suspects were arrested and one was wounded. Police Deputy Minister Maggie Sotyu said more 830 student constables will be deployed in the Western Cape to intensify the fight against police killings and gangsterism. Sotyu said government regarded the province as number one priority when it comes to fighting crime. According to the police statistics, the Western Cape recorded the most attacks on police officers. The statistic released earlier showed that a total of 714 police officers have come under attack nationally 276 in the Western Cape alone. About 38 police officers have been killed this year. We are saying to the officials from the justice cluster that when it comes to such cases including the killing of the police, please let us make sure the perpetrators of those crimes stay behind bars. We cannot afford to lose our young women, old women and children the way it is happening in the Western Cape,&quot; Sotyu said.