TODAY, the Cape Times is featuring the second of two business personalities we interviewed this week in the run-up to the RCS Gugulethu Race on December 16. Our media communications officer, Moshe Apleni, interviewed Loyiso Ngqwemla, who is the director and owner of Qhinebe Holdings, which has interests in management consulting, telecoms, rebar and airconditioning systems. Ngqwemla is passionate about leadership and entrepreneurship, and is also the chairperson of the Black Management Forum in Cape Town, and a member of the RCS Gugulethu Athletics Club.He is excited about taking part in the RCS Gugulethu Reconciliation Race 2016, which has fondly become known as the Gugs Race.What is it about the Gugs Race that makes it appealing to you and other runners? Firstly, the day, December 16 (Reconciliation Day), is a memorable date for the majority of South Africans. Secondly, the best location for such an event because of its history; for example, the brutal killing of young men by the South African police force in 1986, now known as The Gugulethu Seven, and also the killing of an anti-apartheid activist, Amy Biehl, by PAC activists during a protest in that location. So what better way to bring all parties from a different spectrum to reconcile and leverage our diversity through a sporting event, namely running and other activities on the day!Has the race grown in popularity since it started? What s behind that success?The race has grown bigger and better from its humble beginnings, and continues to grow. I strongly believe the drive from those who are leading the club, and members of RCS Gugulethu Running Club, is so evident and visible to many because people are making a difference by walking the talk. The results and benefits of running are beyond fitness and health. Running also increases someone s social capital, and people leverage such an investment well; then nothing becomes impossible. Do you think successful business people such as yourself should be playing more of a role in uplifting the poor? Does the Gugs Race help in achieving this?I don t just think so, but strongly encourage my fellow South Africans, especially those who come from similar backgrounds (because they understand the system better) to play an active role in dealing with our socio-economic challenges. In my other capacity as the BMF chairperson of the Cape Town branch, I advocate for managerial leadership development and socio-economic transformation, and sport is one of the platforms to use to achieve just that. The Gugs race is ideal and a great platform to move towards the intended direction.What advice would you share with first-time Gugs Race runners to help them in the race?They must take it easy and enjoy the race while appreciating the people, surroundings and culture of that environment. It is an opportunity for many to understand and respect the different cultures and, most importantly, identify where they can add value to make the race even bigger in the coming years. The theme of the race is reconciliation. Tell us what this means to you, and how this theme can benefit the race and society in general.There is no better theme to describe the race, therefore people need to be mindful of the fact that we come from different backgrounds and cultures. We also come from a history of apartheid, and I want to believe our city was seriously affected by such a divide, therefore what better way to actively transform our thinking for the betterment of our city, province and country through a respectful engagement, and running on the day creates such a conducive environment! Another important aspect that I think ties well with the theme is the name of the location, Gugulethu, meaning our pride , therefore the residents of the area need to drive the necessary hype and support the runners on the day. The event will only grow if we create memories for those who participate, because those people will be the promoters and ambassadors of the RCS Gugulethu Running Club, and there are other socio-economic spin-offs from an event. It must be highlighted that having the agenda-setting Cape Times as the media partner of the event clearly shows its intent as an inclusive newspaper for all Cape communities. Runners can enter via www.entrytime.com or at the venue on race day from 5.30am onwards