The constitution is the birth certificate of the democratic South Africa. It provides the legal foundation for the existence of the democratic South Africa. It commits us, individually and collectively, to build a nation based on the democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom, through constitutionalism and the rule of law. It sets out how the state will be constituted and run. It outlines our rights and responsibilities as citizens and the creation of particular institutions to support and safeguard our democracy. The constitution is the supreme law of the land and all laws passed by Parliament must be in line with the constitution in our constitutional democracy.After two years of public consultation, the new constitution was finally adopted on May 8, 1996, by an overwhelming 87 percent of the members of the Constitutional Assembly. Following adoption, the text was referred to the Constitutional Court for certification, which was done on December 4, 1996. President Mandela signed the constitution into law on December 10, 1996. The constitution defines the structure of government. It outlines the division of South Africa into nine provinces and establishes the structure of national, provincial and local spheres of government, and the principles that govern the interaction between the spheres.Importantly, our constitution contains an important democratic principle called the separation of powers. That means that the power of the state is divided between three different, but interdependent components or arms, namely the executive (Cabinet), the legislature (Parliament) and a single independent judiciary (Courts of law).It is important to note that the three arms of the state continue to work together in a spirit of co-operation.The Bill of Rights also contains socio-economic rights, including rights to education, health care, social security or water and electricity. Concrete steps have been taken since 1994 to remove the laws upon which institutionalised racial discrimination was based.Our constitution is our precious heritage.It has been an excellent guide in the journey of building a new national democratic society in the past 20 years of its existence. It is my privilege and honour, on behalf of all arms of the state, to congratulate South Africans on this 20-year milestone! Long live the constitution of the Republic of South Africa!