A HORSE named Baybar quietly trotted into the history books last month after becoming the first stallion to bravely enter into the depths of an underwater treadmill, made especially for horses.Baybar took his first steps in the underwater treadmill at Pelmeadow Estate in Klapmuts, near Paarl, on November 17.Since the 1990s, the benefits of underwater training have been known, and more recently, a number of small animal veterinary practices have started employing this technology to aid with the rehabilitation of canine patients, especially after surgical cruciate ligament repairs.When Baybar arrived on Pellmeadow Estate, he turned the owner, Dr Deon de Beer s, perceptions of horses and horse care around. Living on a small farm, without the use of a tractor, other plans had to be made to deal with stable muck. At the end of 2014, Baybar Trailers started building horse boxes and farm implements that could be used by smaller-scale farmers who do not have tractors. All Baybar implements are built to be towed by quad bike.As all horse owners know, one horse is never enough, and soon a few race horses found their way to the estate once they had retired from the track. One in particular arrived with an injured tendon, and Dr De Beer, against strong advice to have the horse put down, decided to give him another chance at a more peaceful life. But his injury still had to be treated. Dr De Beer, therefore, sought advice from colleagues in the US who had successfully rehabilitated horses with similar injuries, and constructed the underwater treadmill. Thus was born Baybar Actvie.Baybar himself was given the privilege of trying it out first, and he gave his stamp of approval.Training a horse in an underwater environment has many benefits which can help to get them moving and excercising much faster after injury or surgery. Where they would usually be restricted to box rest and minimal hand walking, they can now continue to exercise because the weight they have to put on injured limbs is decreased. This means they can strenghten muscles without putting added pressure on an injury. Muscle strength is increased through the resistance provided by the water, but because horses don t actually swim in the water, their necks do not have to arch, and their backs don t hollow making it ideal for those with back problems.According to a 2013 research project, at the highest water levels, horses bend their backs more after 10 days of working on an underwater treadmill. This research also suggested that adding an underwater treadmill session to your horse s fitness regime will relieve back pain and increase its range of motion. It seems that after six sessions, horses take fewer, longer steps in the water treadmill, says a study published in 2010. There are also benefits for horses with oseatoarthritis, and it improved their postural stability. Research conducted in 2014 supports the idea that the physical demands on a horse are intensified while it supports the symmetry of the horse s movement. Just walking on the treadmill may evoke more activity than trotting, a 1999 study suggested.The facilities are now open, and anyone who would like to add another element to their horses' training regime can book such sessions. In addition, soon there will be facilities where any equine vet can send a horse for post-injury or post-surgical rehabilition. Procedures are overseen by Dr de Beer himself with qualified vet nurses in attendance. There are also vet therapists who specialise in equine body work, and can help to first assess horses for any problems and then work out a suitable training programme.