Johannesburg What is meant to be the happiest time of year is also the most tragic time on our roads as road trip season gets into full swing and our long-distance routes get clogged up with fun-seekers eager to get to their destination. Here are 10 ways you can make your journey a safer one: Make sure the car's readyMake sure your car is up to the task of getting you there safely and without breaking down.Read our car-prep tips HEREKnow your routeWhether you're using paper maps, Google Maps or satnav, it helps to know the route you're taking and the distance to be covered. Also stick to familiar routes as far as possible and if you are venturing into the unknown, factor in some extra travel time in case the roads are not up to scratch.The rest factorMake sure you get at least seven hours of sleep the night before, and be sure to keep your mind fresh along the way by stopping every 200km or thereabouts. Plan the best stopping points before you even set off and you'll really impress as a seasoned road tripper.Just remember that fatigue is one of the biggest killers on our roads. If you feel you are about to nod off, open the windows immediately and stop to stretch as soon as it's safe to do so.Halfway holidaySure, you really want to get to your destination as quickly as possible, and get that long journey and all the are we there yet? headaches over with. But a one-day journey, particularly if it's over 800km, will drain your concentration and you'll be tempted to take more chances to speed things up. Be smart and adventurous by booking accommodation halfway to your destination (or thereabouts) and have some fun exploring a new town.Drive during the dayWhile some prefer to do their long-distance travels at night because the roads are quieter, the stats show that driving at night is a lot more dangerous. This is due to the obvious significant decrease in visibility as well as diminished speed/distance judgement and the presence of drunk drivers. You might have to contend with more traffic, and summer heat, when driving during the day but it's still considered the safer and therefore 'brighter' option.Buckle upWell, yes. Make sure that you and the entire family yes even those in back seats are wearing seatbelts. Without these simple devices any other safety features your vehicle might have are basically useless. Also make sure that smaller children are strapped into correctly-fitted child seats.Choose the smart speedGoing too fast or too slow can significantly increase the risk of an accident. Go too slow and everyone will want to get past and many will take chances doing so, drive too quick and you won't be able to slow down in time if something goes wrong. Your safest bet is usually in the region of the speed limit. Also slow down when it rains as stopping distances will be longer and visibility is reduced. You'll also want to avoid any sudden braking or steering moves while the roads are slippery.Careful around slower vehiclesSo not everyone has the presence of mind or the engine power to drive at a reasonable so you'll inevitably end up overtaking more than just a few vehicles. But here's the number one rule of safe driving never, ever overtake if you're not absolutely sure you'll get to the other side safely and always leave margin for error. You might feel all genius calculating that gap to the last second, but did you factor in what might happen if the engine suddenly loses power (a turbo blowing, for instance) or a tyre bursts? Better to arrive late than dead.Be a keen observerWhile it's easy to drift into auto-pilot mode, your observation skills will save your life if you have the discipline to closely watch the scene around you and identify potentially dangerous situations before they even become a threat.Only drive soberLike buckling up, this one should really go without saying, but with stats showing that booze is a factor in 58 percent of road fatalities in this country, we really can't emphasise this enough. Sure, you're on holiday and you might want to knock a few back in your holiday town, but then put some money aside for a service like Road Trip or Goodfellas, or use Uber or one of the local taxi services or hotel shuttles. Whatever that might cost is surely a lot less than the price of your life, jail time and a criminal record or not having your insurance pay out.IOL Motoring