People allegedly barred from accessing the Saldanha Bay beachfront have cried racism at the municipality.They say since Reconciliation Day last week, those not living in a multimillion-rand residential area opposite the shore were barricaded out of the public parking.Marius Koen, the DA-ruled municipality s mayor, said it was to keep law and order because at times people arrived at the beach by the taxi-load, and bring with them noise, vandalism and drunkenness .The procedure in the West Coast town was reminiscent of apartheid s racist tactics, whereby only certain people were allowed on a particular beach, said William Mugal.Mugal, 44, lives in Diazville, a predominantly coloured area, and said most of the people who owned property along the beachfront were white, and were granted residence permits to park wherever they wanted. Visitors to the beachfront were searched, and not allowed to park in the designated space at the only entrance to the beach. People are sensitive about this kind of thing because of historical reasons. We have a beach right where I live, but it s a dangerous beach and we can t swim there. That s why we come here, Mugal said.Koen denied any racism, and said the entrance was blocked for a short while because the beach could get full at stages.After a while, cars were searched and allowed to use the parking area, he said. The point is, we don t want cars there. People come and open their boots and it sthey re full of liquor. It s a big problem here, especially when they come with taxis. Then it turns into an all-night party. This is not the first time we did it. We acted in terms of the law to try and provide law and order, Koen said.Ward councillor Frank Pronk said although he knew little about why the barricade was erected, he was sure it was the result of alleged complaints by residents. I can assure you that people living there don t drink on the beach like that. They pay a lot of tax, and to wake up to broken bottles and mess is not a nice thing, Pronk said.He added that in the 1980s, one of Saldanha s caravan parks had been rated among the top in the country, but today it s a place you don t want to be .He said that many people who had lived there for decades, including himself, were moving to other areas.ANC regional spokesman Sammy Claassen, however, said the procedure was an attempt to deny people their basic rights. This is targeted racism, as 90 percent of people who live along the beachfront are white, and it reminds me of the old law enforcement. There was a lot of confusion and no formal communication This act can only lead to embarrassment, confusion and hostility. It s certainly not in the public s interest to have unnecessary road closures at our beachfronts. We also noted that this road closure is only occurring in the Saldanha Bay area, and not Langebaan, Claassen said.The party demanded that the municipality consult the community. This is a public road and the only entry point for the public to the sea, he said. Beachfront resident John Suntele, who lives on the corner where the barricade was placed, said for the most part of the weekend the public parking area was empty. It s that time of the year where everyone wants to go the beach, and they should be allowed to park where there is public parking space available, Suntele said. [email&#160;protected]