AN EVICTED Ladismith farmworker s family is to return home within days, after victory in the highest court in the land, in a monument to justice .Voorbaat farmworker Karel Snyders, 54, hauled farm owner Louisa de Jager to the Constitutional Court after she fired him and began eviction proceedings in 2008.After a seven-year court battle, Snyders was evicted in 2015 and told he could not work for De Jager again.Snyders, his wife and their three children were evicted from the house they had resided in since 1992. Snyders s attorney Johan van der Merwe said: The magistrate s court granted the eviction order, which the Land Claims Court confirmed. We then approached the Supreme Court of Appeal who struck it off the roll because such an appeal lies with the Land Claims Court. In an apartheid-style instruction from the farm owner, my client and his family were evicted. He said Snyders had been evicted without any notice and in their absence, as their belongings were thrown out of the house. The Snyderses had to live in a shed on a neighbouring farm, which was not made for human occupation. All the Constitutional Court judges agreed on the outcome of the main matter and this judgment is a monument of justice with far reaching implications for farmworkers in the rural regions. He said the Constitutional Court judgment concludes the interim eviction order should never have been granted. The summary of the judgment indicates a punitive costs order was made against De Jager, as a mark of the court s disapproval of De Jager s conduct surrounding the eviction.Snyders said: We had faith the courts would rule in our favour because what was done to us was not right morally and now the law agrees. The court said we can return in 14 days and we will go back. He said another family was given their home, which the court ruled should not have been done. We are still living in the shed and I am working on another farm at the moment. I am discussing the situation with my lawyer because I do not want any bad blood because she has a problem with our returning. His wife, Sylvie, said she had no words to describe her joy at the outcome of the court. A shed is no place for people to live and when you have children it s hard, but you have to make it through those hard times. Our faith and our belief that justice would prevail kept us going after the many court rulings against us. The lawyer for De Jager, Anzel Laubscher, did not respond to calls nor messages for comment by deadline.Van der Merwe said he had no indication as to what De Jager s legal counsel may pursue and believes the Constitutional Court set out the law regulating farmworker evictions in a brilliant and comprehensive judgment.