FORCED into a dark and empty room in an unknown location for several hours, EFF councillor Solly Mkhize desperately feared for his life.The two men holding him hostage continuously came in and out of the room asking him strange, personal questions about where he lived while they disabled the tracking device in his car. Mkhize, a top member of the EFF provincial command team in Gauteng, was the victim of a harrowing hijack and kidnapping in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni, on Tuesday night.According to him, the incident happened not long after 8pm. I was with a friend. We were parked outside a friend s house talking when two men approached us from behind. One of them pulled out a fire- arm and they chased my friend away. Mkhize said the men demanded the car keys and pushed him into the passenger seat. My face was covered with a balaclava and they drove away with me until we arrived at a house.&quot;They forced me into a dark room in an empty house while they looked for and disabled the tracker device. Every time they came into the room and asked me questions, I gave them the wrong answers and locations. Then they phoned someone and tell me that I m lying, he said.During the ordeal, the men also took his driving licence and cellphone, and turned his phone off to stop anyone contacting him.The men eventually forced Mkhize back into the car after they had disabled the tracking device. They dropped me off on the R550 near the bushes after driving around with me for some time. In a twist, before dropping him off, Mkhize asked the men to return his cellphone and driving licence, which they did. After they left him, Mkhize turned his phone on and sent his location to his loved ones and friends, and he was later picked up and taken to a police station. I m okay, I m just glad I wasn t hurt; it could have been a lot worse. I escaped with my life and I m grateful for that, he told The Star, adding that he was a bit concerned about the car.When asked if he believed there was any motive behind the incident, he said the two men were not known to him, but he suspected that the person they kept phoning was someone who knew him because of all the calls they made. The car has been identified as a white Mercedes with a small EFF insignia on its side.Vosloorus police spokesperson Captain Piet Rossouw confirmed the incident and said a case of hijacking had been opened. &quot;No one has been arrested yet and our investigations are continuing, Rossouw added.Anyone with information on the crime has been encouraged to contact the police.