THE deaths of three initiates in the city has angered The Xhosa Royal House, which has demanded answers from the caretakers responsible for young men going through rites of passage. The Western Cape is one of the few regions that we highly regard in terms of running our culture and customs. This is the first time that we hear of so many deaths in that province. There needs to be a full investigation into this. The nurses that were looking after these children must account, said Prince Xhanti Sigcawu of the Xhosa Royal House. The latest death reported in the province was a 19-year-old initiate at an initiation school in Langa on Friday. The incident came less than a week another initiate died at a school in Philippi on Wednesday, and after 18-year-old Lungile Mayisela was declared dead at a school in Khayelitsha on December 2. Mayisela was buried on Saturday. Traditional leaders in the province say an urgent meeting has been called this week with the families of the young men who died. By Friday nine initiates had were reported dead in the Eastern Cape due to dehydration, pneumonia, assaults, septicaemia and botched circumcision procedures, according to the department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs. The department yesterday issued a stern warning to parents who took their children to illegal initiation schools. Western Cape Emergency Medical and Forensic Pathology Services spokesman Robert Daniels said autopsy examinations of Mayisela and the other initiate from Philippi had been completed, and would be forwarded to the respective investigating officers. In terms of the Inquest Act we are only able to make the findings available to the investigating officers of these cases, he said. Embo Initiation Council in Langa has dismissed claims that the teenager s death was due to negligence, saying the incident caught them by surprise. The council s chairman, Chisa Katangane, said yesterday: This issue had nothing to do with the procedure. The boy was being taken care of, according to his nurse. We were told that he started saying things that did not make sense. The initiate was in good shape and all the necessary steps he needed were followed. This is the first time such an incident happened under my era. Katangana has called on the provincial government to make resources available to help traditional leaders deal with emergencies. Western Cape Traditional Leaders Forum member Daluxolo Mtotywa said they did not suspect foul play in Mayisela s death. We do not have a problem with how the procedure was performed. We visited the area quite frequently and we were satisfied with how the boys were being treated. What we understand now is that he started losing energy. He was fine for a bit, but this happened, he said. He added that they were waiting for an autopsy report to see if the young man had been prevented from drinking water. Health spokesman Mark van der Heever said traditional surgeons had been engaged both nationally and provincially on ways of making the practice safe. He said they had been working with the provincial Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport (DCAS) to support traditional circumcision. With the upcoming school holidays fast approaching, the department will continue to ensure safe practices through ongoing inter-sectoral collaboration with DCAS and the traditional circumcisers. Circumcision forums in the districts will continue to work hand in hand with the dedicated health teams in districts. [email&#160;protected]