WHEN a patron at an upmarket Clifton restaurant requested proof that waiters had not only classified his table by race, he was shown two slips that read Zim and 8 whites respectively. But he said this was simply a failed attempt at a cover-up, as the slips he was shown were printed after he made the request.Masibulele Maqetuka and his partner were sharing a meal at The Bungalow restaurant along Victoria Road, and when they asked for the bill they were shocked to find 2 BLACKS printed where the table number should be.Maqetuka took to social media to voice his outrage, and tweeted: The Bungalow in Clifton (@KoveCollection) still sees us by the colour of our skin. On Instagram he posted: I really didn t see this one coming still being seen only by the colour of my skin. Yesterday, Maqetuka said when they escalated the matter to the manager, he didn t do much. He said that due to the terrace/bar area not having table numbers, waiters resort to descriptions of clothing to identify customers. However, in our case we were racially profiled. When we asked the waiter to show us previous slips where they d racially profiled white people, he came back with two slips, one labelling the table Zim &amp; another 8 whites . This was a failed attempt at covering his 2 blacks-profiling on our slip, as the time-stamps on the other slips clearly showed the slips were printed after we asked them to show us proof, Maqetuka said.The Cape Times contacted the restaurant yesterday and a manager referred the paper to the head office, which then referred it to a public relations company.In a statement issued, the restaurant apologised to Maqetuka. The Bungalow has a clear policy of non-discrimination on the basis of gender, race, religion or sexual orientation. This policy is strictly applied to all employees and customers. Our seating system is to identify customers by table numbers only. On this occasion, this was the act of one employee, and an internal investigation is taking place. Procedures are being put in place to ensure that this does not happen again. No offence was intended and we are sorry that Mr Maqetuka had this experience, it read.On Human Rights Day last year the City launched an Inclusive City Campaign with the the tagline, Don t let racists speak for you . The goal was to initiate a culture of rights and to emphasise that it would not tolerate racists, sexists or homophobes.Mayor Patricia de Lille s spokesperson, Zara Nicholson, yesterday said the City rejected all forms of discrimination. We urge people to activate their rights and report incidents to the relevant authorities such as the SA Human Rights Commission, Nicholson said.Last week, Clarke s Bar &amp; Dining Room in Bree Street came under fire for its handling of an alleged racially motivated attack on some of its customers.According to reviews left on Clarke s Facebook page, a group of friends were dining when a woman approached their table and asked them if everyone here is black and called them common coloureds .They asked the management to remove the woman but were apparently removed from the restaurant themselves after the situation escalated.In a second apology, after the first one had been slammed as insincere, owner Lyndall Maunder said the incident had made her realise how disconnected she was, and her perception of the world was permanently changed. [email&#160;protected]