RESIDENTS in the suburbs have taken to reporting their neighbours for wasting water, as the countrywide drought continues to worsen. A total of 1 424 reports have been received since Level 3 water restrictions were implemented on November 1.Mayco member for Utility Services Ernest Sonnenberg said: Common complaints include neighbours using hosepipes and irrigation systems to water their lawns, and the use of high-pressure hoses by painting companies and car washes. Earlier this month, after an initially encouraging response to the implementation of Level 3 water restrictions, total consumption once again accelerated last week, with an average of 905 million litres a day being used, the city said. This is well more than the target of 800 million litres, and is up 50 million litres a day since the previous week. Residents were reminded that the tariffs associated with Level 3 restrictions came into effect on December 1, and as such there were now likely to be financial consequences if savings were not achieved, especially for high water users. Leigh Douglas reported an estate in Somerset West to the city for using a sprinkler system at midday, daily. Douglas said it was every citizen s responsibility to make sure they were responsible with their water consumption. She said she was not sure whether the estate was using borehole water, but every day at midday the sprinklers would be turned on, and left to run for an hour. We are going through a drought. This is pure disregard and wasteful. We all suffer at the end of the day, she said. To conserve water the city has advised residents to ensure all taps are fully closed, and to replace tap washers regularly. A dripping tap can waste 30 litres a day that is the equivalent of 10 000 litres a year. Fit tap aerators to reduce and spread the flow. This saves water, yet feels like you are using the same amount, Sonnenberg said. He advised residents to avoid watering during windy periods and only water their gardens when necessary, to wash vehicles using a bucket of water and limit spraying with a hosepipe, and to fit a pool cover to prevent water loss through evaporation.